---
layout: post
title: "Sonic Seminars – spring 2012, Barcelona"
description: ""
category: workshops
author: redfrik
tags: []
---

					<p>A new series of seminars (from <a href="http://lullcec.org/en/2012/tallers/seminaris-sonors-primavera-2012/">http://lullcec.org/en/2012/tallers/seminaris-sonors-primavera-2012/</a>)</p>
<p>30/31.03.2012 &amp; 01.04.2012 –<strong> <a title="Introduction to audio programming with SuperCollider" href="http://lullcec.org/en/2012/tallers/introduccio-a-la-programacio-de-laudio-amb-supercollider/">Introduction to Audio Programming with SuperCollider</a></strong>, by <em>Miguel Negrão</em>.</p>
<p>This introductory seminar will allow anyone with no previous experience in audio programming to start developing his/her own interactive sound synthesis programs using the SuperCollider programming environment. After a general introduction to the SuperCollider language and architecture, participants will learn to implement fundamental audio synthesis and processing techniques, as well as scheduling events in time and interfacing to the real world using MIDI, OpenSoundControl or the HID protocol.</p>
<p><em><a title="Miguel Negrão" href="http://friendlyvirus.org/artists/zlb/">Miguel Negrão</a> is a sound artist born in 1981 in Lisbon, Portugal. Under the alias ZLB he has been active with  Drone and Ambient music projects. He has presented pieces for the Wave Field Systems of the Game of Life foundation and of TUBerlin, Acousmonium of the GRM and in other concerts in Portugal, Spain , Netherlands and Germany.  With a Bachelors in Applied Mathematics, he has recently finished a Masters at the Sonology Institute in the Den Haag Conservatory on the topic of Strategies in diffuse spatialization and is currently a PhD candidate i<em>n the field of Spatial Audio </em>at Sonic Arts Research Center in Belfast.</em></p>
<p>20/21/22.04.2012 – <strong><a title="A hands-on look at some exotic techniques for sound generation and processing" href="http://lullcec.org/en/2012/tallers/una-mirada-practica-a-algunes-tecniques-exotiques-per-a-la-generacio-i-el-processament-del-so/">A hands-on look at some exotic techniques for sound generation and processing</a></strong>, by Chris Jeffs.</p>
<p>This seminar will present a wide spectrum of lesser known and somehow exotic sound generation and processing techniques. A short presentation and explanation will be provided for each technique, along with sample patches provided for each participant to hack as they choose. These are some of the techniques we will see: physical modeling, distortion, altered harmonic distributions, analogue emulation, phase distortion, dynamic waveshaping, algorithmic waveform generation, and spectral processing techniques using the Fast Fourier Transform.</p>
<p><em><a title="Chris Jeffs" href="http://chrisjeffs.com/">Chris Jeffs</a> was born in the UK and nowadays lives in Berlin. Originally a trombone player, he progressed to making and releasing electronic music, touring extensively since 1994 as a live artist and DJ, <em>with 13 singles and 5 albums published on <a title="Rephlex" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rephlex">Rephlex</a>, </em>most prominently under the name Cylob. He turned to creating his own programs as a way of making his sound more distinctive. His granular synthesis and visual animation software “Particularity” won joint first prize in the LOMUS 2010 competition. Recent activity has focused on freelance iPhone development, in addition to programming for interactive installations and performances.</em></p>
<p>18/19/20.05.2012 – <strong>Audiovisual Programming: Mapping and Visualization</strong>, by Fredrik Olofsson.</p>
<p>Despite lacking the slick effects and fancy 3D features found in other programming languages, programming graphics in SuperCollider is special due to one unique feature: the sharing of data and algorithms between the sound synthesis and the drawing routines. This seminar will investigate the built-in graphical features of SuperCollider and how to use these artistically in combination with the sound synthesis server. We will use simple sounds and visuals to explore the fields of audiovisual mapping and sound visualization.</p>
<p><em><a title="Fredrik Olofsson" href="http://fredrikolofsson.com/">Fredrik Olofsson</a> was trained as a composer at the Royal University College of Music in Stockholm. As part of MusicalFieldsForever he has exhibited interactive art at museums and galleries. He currently teaches at the University of Arts of Berlin and is a frequent contributor within the SuperCollider open source community. He is also one of the founding members of <a title="TOPLAP" href="http://toplap.org/">TOPLAP</a>, a collective that popularized the use of <a title="Live Coding" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_coding">live coding</a>.</em></p>
<p>8/9/10.06.2012 – <strong>Listening and Learning Systems for Composition and Live Performance</strong>, by Nick Collins.</p>
<p>This seminar will explore practical machine listening and machine learning methods within the SuperCollider environment, alongside associated technical and musical issues. Applications for such techniques range from autonomous concert systems, through novel musical controllers, to sound analysis projects outside of realtime informing musical composition. We will investigate built-in and third party UGens and classes for listening and learning, including the SCMIR library for music information retrieval in SuperCollider.</p>
<p><em><a title="Nick Collins" href="http://sussex.ac.uk/Users/nc81/">Nick Collins</a> is a composer, performer and researcher in the field of computer music. He lectures at the University of Sussex, running the music informatics degree programmes and research group. Research interests include machine listening, interactive and generative music, and audiovisual performance. He co-edited the Cambridge Companion to Electronic Music (Cambridge University Press 2007) and The SuperCollider Book (MIT Press, 2011) and wrote the Introduction to Computer Music (Wiley 2009). iPhone apps include RISCy, TOPLAPapp, Concat, BBCut and PhotoNoise for iPad.</em></p>
<p><strong>Location:</strong> Hangar (introductory seminar) and Fabra i Coats – Fàbrica de Creació (rest of the series).</p>
<p><strong>Price:</strong> 90€ each or 240/260€ for the whole series (in one single payment / payment by installments)</p>
<div>To sign up or request further information, please send an email to <a href="mailto:info@lullcec.org">info@lullcec.org</a>.</div>
<div><em>This activity is organized by <a href="http://lullcec.org/">l’ull cec</a> with the collaboration of <a href="http://cultura.gencat.cat/conca/">Consell Nacional de la Cultura i les Arts</a>, <a title="ICUB" href="http://barcelonacultura.bcn.cat/institut-de-cultura">Institut de Cultura de Barcelona</a>, Fabra Coats – Fábrica de Creació and <a title="Hangar" href="http://hangar.org/">Hangar</a>.</em></div>
